With a hearth fireplace
open used daily in
cold period, we thought it
was better to protect our
home by installing a detector
fire station operating 24 hours a day
24. This is an emotage whose cost is
very modest that we propose to you
sounds to realize so you too,
you can be warned at the earliest
quickly if unfortunately a fire breaks out
declared in your home.

Fire detection
---------------
Note, first of all, that this
mounting is not just about
to those who have a fireplace
at their home. A fire may break out
anywhere, near a
heat source from any
type or following a short circuit on
an electrical installation.

As a result, this integrated assembly
resent everyone and can even
be made in multiple copies
to monitor each part of a
housing given the fact that
its price does not exceed a few
tens of francs.

The principle used to detect a
fire is based on the measurement of the
temperature of the room where
the detector is located. When the threshold (set at
around 35 to 40°C) is reached,
the alarm is triggered. In case of in
fire in a room this temperature threshold
(which can be reduced) is
very quickly reached, even before
you had time to
wake up if you were sleeping in a
adjoining room, hence the interest of
the alarm. It may be objected that this
principle does not make it possible to detect the
presence of fumes, except if these
these raise the temperature of the
room in which the detector is located. 
A smoke detector has already been proposed in the review.
These two
detectors can complement each other. We
note, however, that the complexity
of a smoke detector is more
important than that of our mon
tage that we can also ali
lie by simple stacks (the func
battery operation is guaranteed
for more than a year in use
permanent) which makes us prefer
this solution.
Temperature detection is
entrusted to a thermistor (element
resistive whose value depends on the
temperature).

The chosen model is
a CTN (Resistor with negative temperature coefficient) whose nominal value
nal at 20°C is 22 W2. When the temperature
of this component increases, its
resistance decreases according to an exponential law
 (Figure 1).


Synoptic and operation
----------------------
Figure 2 shows the structure of the detec
fire maker. The first functional block
is a time base that cyclically feeds the series association of the
CTN and an adjustable resistor Ro. the
setting of Ro is such that at normal temperature
male, the voltage Vdec present at the terminals
of this same resistance is less than the
triggering threshold of the comparator which
follows it (Vdec=Valim.R2/(R?+Rc{n)).

If the
temperature rises, the resistance of the NTC
decreases, leading to an increase in
Vdec. As soon as the comparator threshold is
reached, its output goes high, which has
the effect of starting the siren which
must warn the user.
Apart from periods of aJarm, almost
all of the active components (of type
CMOS) is idle. Considering the
technology used, overall consumption
of these is [ ïesque null. By feeding
the temperature sensor itself
by a time base instead of powering it
permanently, we reduce consumption
assembly, which prolongs the ckxed
battery life and achieves
operating time of about 600 days
with 1 Ah capacity magpies.

The NTC is in fact only supplied when Vt is in the high state, 
i.e. for about 10%
total monitoring time (Figure 3).
Since the elements CTN and Ro
consume nearly 90% of the energy
necessary for assembly, this reduction in
their working time is crucial to obtain
nish a very low overall consumption. He
however, it must be ensured that the monitoring
remains sufficient. By taking a period of
15 seconds and a duration of activity of the
detector from 1 to 2 seconds, we can consider
deny that surveillance is almost permanent
missing and that this mode works
ment does not alter your qualities of the detector.

Structural diagram (figure 4)
----------------------------
The editing time base is based on
the UIA NAND gate (CMOS type 4093)
whose input T is brought to the high level
permanently in order to authorize its function
tion. Diodes D, and D? put
respectively R1 and R? in service for
that the condensate discharge time
tor C is shorter than that of its
charge. The U1b gate here plays a role of tam
pon inverter at the output of which the duration of the
high level represents only about 10%
of the overall period. Its output feeds the
CTN and the resistor Ro which is actually the ace
serial association of R4 and RV? thanks to
which can change the temperature of
triggering the alarm.
The comparator function is fulfilled by the
RS-type flip-flop consisting of the
dation of the 2 NOR and U2y gates For
these CMOS type logic gates, the threshold
tilting height is approximately
equal to half the supply voltage.
The setting of RV must therefore be such that at
normal room temperature, voltage
Vdec is below this threshold. When the
ambient temperature exceeds the pre threshold
defined by the setting of RV.. Vdec aug
lies and exceeds failover threshold
(Valim/2). The Q output of the RS flip-flop (pin
4 of UJ goes high, allowing en
entry into oscillation of the astable built around
Uic and Uld. The P button connected to the input
RESET resets the rocker to rest (output
0=0) either after inserting the batteries or
after an alarm.

The period of this first astable, which
mainly depends on the components
Rf> and C3, is of the order of 0.3 to 0.4 s.
When its output (Pin 10 of U1c) is at OV
(low state), the second astable built around
^2d U2c in turn enters into oscillation at
a frequency (function of RV2 and C4)
adjustable between 1 and 5 kHz. This signal is
applied to a piezoelectric buzzer after
amplification by the sextuple U3 inverter
{CMOS type 4049). The disposition
adopted for the 6 reversing gates of
U3 increases their output current
tie (parallel connection of the gates) and obtain
ne a peak-to-peak voltage across the terminals of the
buzzer equal to twice the power supply voltage
ment. The timelines of the
figure 5 give the shape of the signals in
different points of the assembly depending on whether
the latter is at rest or that the tempera
set point has been exceeded.
Setting the frequency of oscillations
the astable, involving U2r and U2d,
allows working at the resolution frequency
nance of the buzzer, œ which increases the power
sound sance it delivers. Modulation
(we could also say the cutting) of the cir
cooked with excitement of the buzzer by that of
0.3 Hz period increases alarm range
because it is recognized that a cut sound is
more easily detectable by ear
human than a continuous sound.
The assembly must work permanently*


Chronograms
------------
ence, no switch is provided for
this one. Its food is entrusted to
4 batteries of 1.5V type R6 or 3A depending on
the space available in the case that we
will have chosen. The power supply is decoupled
by the value chemical capacitor C6
non-critical (47 or 100 pF).

Practical realization and
settings
-------------------------
All assembly components
holds on the printed circuit whose artwork is
presented in figure 6 The components
will be implanted after drilling in res
pecting the drawing of figure 7. On com
will start by implanting the components
less thick (resistors, diodes) and we ter
will undermine those of larger size
(capacitors, pusher, cir supports
integrated cookers, if you opt for this solution
tion). Once the wiring is finished, we check
will rely on a magnifying glass that no solder bridge
do not short-circuit copper tracks voi
sins. We will make sure to respect the good
orientation of polarized components:
chemical capacitors, diodes and cir
integrated cooked.

When this verification work is completed,
that the integrated circuits are in place, we
positions the 2 adjustable ones - halfway and
the assembly is powered by 4 x 1.5V batteries
that we will have previously arranged in
a suitable coupler.
It is very likely that the buzzer will start to
operate at power-on
tension. To stop it, just press
button R twice or twice If this
action has no effect, we will act on RV1 (turn
counter-clockwise) to decrease
Vdec and press P again œ which should stop the alarm.

To adjust RV1 as best as possible (threshold close to
35 to 40QC) without resorting to a
thermostatically controlled enclosure, because it's a safe bet
that our readers don't have that kind of
material at their disposal, you have to improvise
and do with the means at hand.
A simple solution is to circle the CTN
with the fingers and to seek the point of
setting of RV1 which causes the trip
ment of the alarm.
To adjust RV2, we will trust our ears by
striving for the most powerful sound
possible when the alarm is triggered.

Installation in elements
--------------------------
Once this job is done. There is no more
than to put the assembly in a case. The
size of the printed circuit allows the use of
H0- brand translucent flat boxes
LAND that should be machined to leave
exceed the pusher and to ensure a
optimum output of the sound emitted by the buzzer.
The latter will be cdlé against the internal face
of the case opposite the holes provided for
sound output. A preliminary identification of
the relative position of the different elements
having to enter the housing is well avoided
clearly necessary in order to avoid over-
pnses at the time of final insertion.
This fire detector will be placed,
preferably, in a place located above
tor, above a piece of furniture for example,
because the heat is always higher at the
ceiling level than at floor level.
This provision will promote detection
faster temperature rise
that would follow in the event of a fire. We escaped
however, it will be wise to set the detector to
immediate proximity to a heat source
their (oven, electric hob or radiator
blowing) under penalty of internal detections
pests, unless they have raised the triggerthreshold by RV.
For the curious, the measurement of consumption
information (excluding alarms) will be able to provide information
the life of the batteries used. It is enough
for this to interpose a milhammeter
in series between the battery pack and the mon
floor. With a 6V power supply, the inten
absorbed site goes from 30pA when Vt is
in the low state (90% of the time), at 220pA for
Vt in high state (10% of the time). consumption
average mation is therefore worth
lmean=30.0(9+220.0.1 =49pA.

Over a 24-hour day, energy consumes
me is 24.49=1176pAh. With batteries
1Ah capacity. it gives autonomy
theoretical crumb of more than 800 pure. For
be certain of the correct operation of the
assembly, the batteries can be replaced at
after a year, knowing full well that everything
delay in this periodicity will be without
important consequence.